So far, we've covered mapping for robots equipped with only one sensor,
such as mobile robots equipped with
an ultrasonic sensor or LIDAR sensor or even an RGB-D sensor.
Sometimes the mobile robot might be equipped with a combination of these sensors.
Mapping with a mobile robot equipped with a combination of these sensors,
leads to a more precise map.
But how would you combine the information from a LIDAR and
RGB-D sensor or any other combination into a single map.
Well, an intuitive approach would be to implement
the Occupancy Grid Mapping Algorithm and sold for each sensor model.
But this will fail,
since each and every sensor has different characteristics.
In addition to that,
sensors are sensitive to different obstacles.
For example, an RGB-D camera might detect an obstacle at
a particular location but this object might not be seen by the laser beams of a LIDAR,
and thus the LIDAR will process it as a free space.
The best approach to the multi sensor fusion problem is to build
separate maps for each sensor type independently of each other and then integrate them.
Here you can see two independent 2 by 2 maps created by each sensor.
Within the same environment,
both maps do not look the same since each sensor has a different sensitivity.
Now let's denote the map built by the kth sensor as MK and combine the maps.
If the measurements are independent of each other,
you can easily combine the maps using De Morgan's Law.
The resultant map now combines the estimated occupancy values of each cell.
To obtain the most likely map,
we need to compute the maximum value of each cell.
Another approach would be to perform a null operation between values of each cell.
The resulting map now perfectly combines the measurement from different sensors.